.\" yait.1 — Manual page for yait
.TH YAIT 1 "August 2025" "yait 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
yait \- yet another init tool for creating C/C++ projects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yait
.RI [ options ] " project-name"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yait
(yet another init tool) is a project scaffolding utility that helps you start
new C or C++ projects quickly. It creates a new directory containing a portable
build system, header and source files, and optional libraries to provide a
kick start for development.

The intent of
.B yait
is to reduce setup overhead, letting you focus on writing code instead of
boilerplate.

For more detailed documentation, visit:
<https://vx-clutch.github.io/vxserver.dev/docs/yait.html>
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l " " libname
Include optional library support (for example, a testing library).
.TP
.BR \-L
List available optional libraries that can be added to a new project.
.TP
.BR \-c
Generate a C project (default).
.TP
.BR \-C++
Generate a C++ project.
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize a new C project in a directory named
.I foo
:
.PP
.nf
.RS
yait foo
.RE
.fi
.PP
Initialize a new C++ project with an optional library:
.PP
.nf
.RS
yait -C++ -l examplelib bar
.RE
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I include/
Public headers for the new project.
.TP
.I src/
Source files for the new project.
.TP
.I Makefile
Portable POSIX makefile.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make (1),
.BR sh (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by vx-clutch.
